Retrievers
----------

Retrievers are modules that can download or otherwise retrieve files[1], 
including other modules and Packages files. It is expected that at least the
following types will eventually be implemented:

- cd retriever
	Ensures an install cd is mounted, and finds files on it. No real
	retrieving done.
- floppy retriever
	May or may not need to deal with files split across multiple
	floppies. In any case, pulls files off floppies.
- hard disk retriever
	Gets a file from a local hard disk (dos, linux, etc).
- http retriever
	Downloads a file from a remote http mirror.
- ftp retriever (needed?)
	Downloads a file from a remote ftp mirror.
- nfs retriever
	Gets a file via nfs.

A retriever must be able to do the following:

- Provides: retriever
- Set itself up so it can access the cdrom, mirror, or whatever.
- Get a list of the modules that are available. This will be done by
  retrieving a standard Packages file.
- Retrieve a file.

A separate module will take care of parsing the Packages files, and
checking md5sums of downloaded modules, and a separate program
(udpkg) will handle actually installing modules.

Since retrievers are debian packages, they can have a postinst that is
run to set them up. During setup, they may need to prompt the user for
information (using debconf). For example, a nfs retriever will probably
need to prompt the user for a nfs server name.

Retrievers may also need to depend on additional modules. For example the
http/ftp/nfs retrievers will need to depend on a module to set up networking,
while the cdrom retriever may need to depend on module(s) that include kernel
modules for the iso9660 filesystem and cd drivers.

Retrievers may also need to interact with the user when they are retrieving
a file. For example, the floppy retriever will need to prompt for disks.
This interaction will also be accomplished via debconf.

Retriever interface
-------------------

All retrievers should support the following interface.

[ This interface is preliminary and depends on the filesystem layout and
ramdisk allocation scheme used by the installer, and so the locations may
change. ]

/usr/lib/debian-installer/retriever/<retriever name> is a executable (the
name of the exectable must be the same as the name of the module that
contains it). It is run with the following parameters:

retriever [command] [args]

Currently, the only command is "retrieve":

retriever retrieve [source-filename] [dest-filename] [suite]
	Download the specified file to the specified destination from
	the specified suite.  The suite parameter is optional and
	defaults to main.
	The source-filename is the Filename field of a Packages file.

	Thus, retrieving the Packages file itself is something like this:
		retreiver Packages /tmp/Packages
	
	While retrieving a deb is something like this:
		retreiver retrievers/http-retriever.deb /tmp/http-retriever.deb

If the destination file already exists, the retriever may optionally attempt
to continue a download.

Once ran, retrievers are free to prompt the user, or do whatever else is 
necessary to retrieve the file[2].

Note that this simple interface requires that retrievers know the location
of the base directory of the archive. This will not be a problem for many 
-- the cdrom retriever simply uses whatever is available, in a hard-coded
location. Other retrievers may require more configuration. For example, the
http retriever will need to know what version of Debian is being installed,
what site to install from, and probably what version of the debian-installer
is being used as well. The user will likely have to be prompted for some of
this data during retriever setup.

TODO: it might make sense to break some of this out into the retreiver
controller, and expand the interface. It's stilly that all the retreivers
need to know the distribution code name for instance.

Retriever controller
--------------------

This is another module, that makes use of the retrievers. It doesn't
actually depend on any though. What it does is, when it is picked from the
menu, it builds a list of all available retreivers, and has the user pick
one from the list. That retreiver is then configured, and is used to 
retreive whatever seems appropriate. Thus, the menu item can be picked
multiple times, using a different retreiver every time. And if a retreiver
downloads a second retreiver, it will show up in future displays of the
retreivers menu.

Which modules are needed is an interesting question. One simplistic
technique is to simply download and unpack all available modules. Another
technique would be to only retreive modules that will appear on the main
menu, and retreive their dependancies if they are used.

The controller also needs to verify md5sums of downloaded files.

Footnotes
---------

[1] Conceptually, rather similar to apt's methods, although the interface
    is a lot more simplistic and we don't need to support things like
    pipelining multiple downloads.
[2] Some retrievers may want to show progress displays while downloading.
    Support for this may need to be added to debconf, via a new data type.
    It's rather hard to do in the context of debconf -- details to be
    determined.
